Source: A01
Section: Broken Access Control
Section-ID: A01

A01 Broken Access Control - OWASP Top 10:2025
Skip to content
OWASP Top 10:2025
A01 Broken Access Control
en - English
cs - Česky
es - Español
it - Italiano
ja - 日本語 (Japanese)
ko - 한국어 (Korean)
fa - فارسی (Persian/Fārsi)
pt-BR - (Português Brasil)
zh-Hant - 简体中文
Initializing search
OWASP/Top10
OWASP Top 10:2025
OWASP/Top10
Home
Introduction
About OWASP
What are Application Security Risks?
Establishing a Modern Application Security Program
Top 10:2025 List
Top 10:2025 List
A01 Broken Access Control
A01 Broken Access Control
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A02 Security Misconfiguration
A03 Software Supply Chain Failures
A04 Cryptographic Failures
A05 Injection
A06 Insecure Design
A07 Authentication Failures
A08 Software or Data Integrity Failures
A09 Security Logging and Alerting Failures
A10 Mishandling of Exceptional Conditions
Next Steps
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A01:2025 Broken Access Control
Background.
Maintaining its position at #1 in the Top Ten, 100% of the applications tested were found to have some form of broken access control. Notable CWEs included are
CWE-200: Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
,
CWE-201: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Sent Data
,
CWE-918 Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
, and
CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
. This category has the highest number of occurrences in the contributed data, and second highest number of related CVEs.
Score table.
CWEs Mapped
Max Incidence Rate
Avg Incidence Rate
Max Coverage
Avg Coverage
Avg Weighted Exploit
Avg Weighted Impact
Total Occurrences
Total CVEs
40
20.15%
3.74%
100.00%
42.93%
7.04
3.84
1,839,701
32,654
Description.
Access control enforces policy such that users cannot act outside of their intended permissions. Failures typically lead to unauthorized information disclosure, modification or destruction of all data, or performing a business function outside the user's limits. Common access control vulnerabilities include:
Violation of the principle of least privilege, commonly known as deny by default, where access should only be granted for particular capabilities, roles, or users, but is available to anyone.
Bypassing access control checks by modifying the URL (parameter tampering or force browsing), internal application state, or the HTML page, or by using an attack tool that modifies API requests.
Permitting viewing or editing someone else's account by providing its unique identifier (insecure direct object references)
An accessible API with missing access controls for POST, PUT, and DELETE.
Elevation of privilege. Acting as a user without being logged in or or gaining privileges beyond those expected of the logged in user (e.g. admin access).
Metadata manipulation, such as replaying or tampering with a JSON Web Token (JWT) access control token, a cookie or hidden field manipulated to elevate privileges, or abusing JWT invalidation.
CORS misconfiguration allows API access from unauthorized or untrusted origins.
Force browsing (guessing URLs) to authenticated pages as an unauthenticated user or to privileged pages as a standard user.
How to prevent.
Access control is only effective when implemented in trusted server-side code or serverless APIs, where the attacker cannot modify the access control check or metadata.
Except for public resources, deny by default.
Implement access control mechanisms once and reuse them throughout the application, including minimizing Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) usage.
Model access controls should enforce record ownership rather than allowing users to create, read, update, or delete any record.
Unique application business limit requirements should be enforced by domain models.
Disable web server directory listing and ensure file metadata (e.g., .git) and backup files are not present within web roots.
Log access control failures, alert admins when appropriate (e.g., repeated failures).
Implement rate limits on API and controller access to minimize the harm from automated attack tooling.
Stateful session identifiers should be invalidated on the server after logout. Stateless JWT tokens should be short-lived to minimize the window of opportunity for an attacker. For longer-lived JWTs, consider using refresh tokens and following OAuth standards to revoke access.
Use well-established toolkits or patterns that provide simple, declarative access controls.
Developers and QA staff should include functional access control in their unit and integration tests.
Example attack scenarios.
Scenario #1:
The application uses unverified data in an SQL call that is accessing account information:
pstmt.setString(1, request.getParameter("acct"));
ResultSet results = pstmt.executeQuery( );
An attacker can simply modify the browser's 'acct' parameter to send any desired account number. If not correctly verified, the attacker can access any user's account.
https://example.com/app/accountInfo?acct=notmyacct
Scenario #2:
An attacker simply forces browsers to target URLs. Admin rights are required for access to the admin page.
https://example.com/app/getappInfo
https://example.com/app/admin_getappInfo
If an unauthenticated user can access either page, it's a flaw. If a non-admin can access the admin page, this is a flaw.
Scenario #3:
An application puts all of their access control in their front-end. While the attacker cannot get to
https://example.com/app/admin_getappInfo
due to JavaScript code running in the browser, they can simply execute:
$ curl https://example.com/app/admin_getappInfo
from the command line.
References.
OWASP Proactive Controls: C1: Implement Access Control
OWASP Application Security Verification Standard: V8 Authorization
OWASP Testing Guide: Authorization Testing
OWASP Cheat Sheet: Authorization
PortSwigger: Exploiting CORS misconfiguration
OAuth: Revoking Access
List of Mapped CWEs
CWE-22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
CWE-23 Relative Path Traversal
CWE-36 Absolute Path Traversal
CWE-59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
CWE-61 UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following
CWE-65 Windows Hard Link
CWE-200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
CWE-201 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Sent Data
CWE-219 Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under Web Root
CWE-276 Incorrect Default Permissions
CWE-281 Improper Preservation of Permissions
CWE-282 Improper Ownership Management
CWE-283 Unverified Ownership
CWE-284 Improper Access Control
CWE-285 Improper Authorization
CWE-352 Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
CWE-359 Exposure of Private Personal Information to an Unauthorized Actor
CWE-377 Insecure Temporary File
CWE-379 Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions
CWE-402 Transmission of Private Resources into a New Sphere ('Resource Leak')
CWE-424 Improper Protection of Alternate Path
CWE-425 Direct Request ('Forced Browsing')
CWE-441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
CWE-497 Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere
CWE-538 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory
CWE-540 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code
CWE-548 Exposure of Information Through Directory Listing
CWE-552 Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties
CWE-566 Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled SQL Primary Key
CWE-601 URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')
CWE-615 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments
CWE-639 Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled Key
CWE-668 Exposure of Resource to Wrong Sphere
CWE-732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
CWE-749 Exposed Dangerous Method or Function
CWE-862 Missing Authorization
CWE-863 Incorrect Authorization
CWE-918 Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
CWE-922 Insecure Storage of Sensitive Information
CWE-1275 Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute
© Copyright 2021-2025 - OWASP Top 10 Team - This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License
.
Made with
Material for MkDocs