Source: A02
Section: Security Misconfiguration
Section-ID: A02

A02 Security Misconfiguration - OWASP Top 10:2025
Skip to content
OWASP Top 10:2025
A02 Security Misconfiguration
en - English
cs - Česky
es - Español
it - Italiano
ja - 日本語 (Japanese)
ko - 한국어 (Korean)
fa - فارسی (Persian/Fārsi)
pt-BR - (Português Brasil)
zh-Hant - 简体中文
Initializing search
OWASP/Top10
OWASP Top 10:2025
OWASP/Top10
Home
Introduction
About OWASP
What are Application Security Risks?
Establishing a Modern Application Security Program
Top 10:2025 List
Top 10:2025 List
A01 Broken Access Control
A02 Security Misconfiguration
A02 Security Misconfiguration
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A03 Software Supply Chain Failures
A04 Cryptographic Failures
A05 Injection
A06 Insecure Design
A07 Authentication Failures
A08 Software or Data Integrity Failures
A09 Security Logging and Alerting Failures
A10 Mishandling of Exceptional Conditions
Next Steps
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A02:2025 Security Misconfiguration
Background.
Moving up from #5 in the previous edition, 100% of the applications tested were found to have some form of misconfiguration, with an average incidence rate of 3.00%, and over 719k occurrences of a Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) in this risk category. With more shifts into highly configurable software, it's not surprising to see this category moving up. Notable CWEs included are
CWE-16 Configuration
and
CWE-611 Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference (XXE)
.
Score table.
CWEs Mapped
Max Incidence Rate
Avg Incidence Rate
Max Coverage
Avg Coverage
Avg Weighted Exploit
Avg Weighted Impact
Total Occurrences
Total CVEs
16
27.70%
3.00%
100.00%
52.35%
7.96
3.97
719,084
1,375
Description.
Security misconfiguration is when a system, application, or cloud service is set up incorrectly from a security perspective, creating vulnerabilities.
The application might be vulnerable if:
It is missing appropriate security hardening across any part of the application stack or improperly configured permissions on cloud services.
Unnecessary features are enabled or installed (e.g., unnecessary ports, services, pages, accounts, testing frameworks, or privileges).
Default accounts and their passwords are still enabled and unchanged.
A lack of central configuration for intercepting excessive error messages. Error handling reveals stack traces or other overly informative error messages to users.
For upgraded systems, the latest security features are disabled or not configured securely.
Excessive prioritization of backward compatibility leading to insecure configuration.
The security settings in the application servers, application frameworks (e.g., Struts, Spring, ASP.NET), libraries, databases, etc., are not set to secure values.
The server does not send security headers or directives, or they are not set to secure values.
Without a concerted, repeatable application security configuration hardening process, systems are at a higher risk.
How to prevent.
Secure installation processes should be implemented, including:
A repeatable hardening process enabling the fast and easy deployment of another environment that is appropriately locked down. Development, QA, and production environments should all be configured identically, with different credentials used in each environment. This process should be automated to minimize the effort required to set up a new secure environment.
A minimal platform without any unnecessary features, components, documentation, or samples. Remove or do not install unused features and frameworks.
A task to review and update the configurations appropriate to all security notes, updates, and patches as part of the patch management process (see
A03 Software Supply Chain Failures
). Review cloud storage permissions (e.g., S3 bucket permissions).
A segmented application architecture provides effective and secure separation between components or tenants, with segmentation, containerization, or cloud security groups (ACLs).
Sending security directives to clients, e.g., Security Headers.
An automated process to verify the effectiveness of the configurations and settings in all environments.
Proactively add a central configuration to intercept excessive error messages as a backup.
If these verifications are not automated, they should be manually verified annually at a minimum.
Use identity federation, short-lived credentials, or role-based access mechanisms provided by the underlying platform instead of embedding static keys or secrets in code, configuration files, or pipelines.
Example attack scenarios.
Scenario #1:
The application server comes with sample applications not removed from the production server. These sample applications have known security flaws that attackers use to compromise the server. Suppose one of these applications is the admin console, and default accounts weren't changed. In that case, the attacker logs in with the default password and takes over.
Scenario #2:
Directory listing is not disabled on the server. An attacker discovers they can simply list directories. The attacker finds and downloads the compiled Java classes, which they decompile and reverse engineer to view the code. The attacker then finds a severe access control flaw in the application.
Scenario #3:
The application server's configuration allows detailed error messages, such as stack traces to be returned to users. This potentially exposes sensitive information or underlying flaws, such as component versions that are known to be vulnerable.
Scenario #4:
A cloud service provider (CSP) defaults to having sharing permissions open to the Internet. This allows sensitive data stored within cloud storage to be accessed.
References.
OWASP Testing Guide: Configuration Management
OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for Error Codes
Application Security Verification Standard V13 Configuration
NIST Guide to General Server Hardening
CIS Security Configuration Guides/Benchmarks
Amazon S3 Bucket Discovery and Enumeration
ScienceDirect: Security Misconfiguration
List of Mapped CWEs
CWE-5 J2EE Misconfiguration: Data Transmission Without Encryption
CWE-11 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Creating Debug Binary
CWE-13 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Password in Configuration File
CWE-15 External Control of System or Configuration Setting
CWE-16 Configuration
CWE-260 Password in Configuration File
CWE-315 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in a Cookie
CWE-489 Active Debug Code
CWE-526 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Environmental Variables
CWE-547 Use of Hard-coded, Security-relevant Constants
CWE-611 Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference
CWE-614 Sensitive Cookie in HTTPS Session Without 'Secure' Attribute
CWE-776 Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion')
CWE-942 Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains
CWE-1004 Sensitive Cookie Without 'HttpOnly' Flag
CWE-1174 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Improper Model Validation
© Copyright 2021-2025 - OWASP Top 10 Team - This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License
.
Made with
Material for MkDocs