Source: A04
Section: Cryptographic Failures
Section-ID: A04

A04 Cryptographic Failures - OWASP Top 10:2025
Skip to content
OWASP Top 10:2025
A04 Cryptographic Failures
en - English
cs - Česky
es - Español
it - Italiano
ja - 日本語 (Japanese)
ko - 한국어 (Korean)
fa - فارسی (Persian/Fārsi)
pt-BR - (Português Brasil)
zh-Hant - 简体中文
Initializing search
OWASP/Top10
OWASP Top 10:2025
OWASP/Top10
Home
Introduction
About OWASP
What are Application Security Risks?
Establishing a Modern Application Security Program
Top 10:2025 List
Top 10:2025 List
A01 Broken Access Control
A02 Security Misconfiguration
A03 Software Supply Chain Failures
A04 Cryptographic Failures
A04 Cryptographic Failures
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A05 Injection
A06 Insecure Design
A07 Authentication Failures
A08 Software or Data Integrity Failures
A09 Security Logging and Alerting Failures
A10 Mishandling of Exceptional Conditions
Next Steps
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A04:2025 Cryptographic Failures
Background.
Moving down two positions to #4, this weakness focuses on failures related to the lack of cryptography, insufficiently strong cryptography, leaking of cryptographic keys, and related errors. Three of the most common Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs) in this risk involved the use of a weak pseudo-random number generator:
CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm, CWE-331: Insufficient Entropy
,
CWE-1241: Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator
, and
CWE-338 Use of Cryptographically Weak Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
.
Score table.
CWEs Mapped
Max Incidence Rate
Avg Incidence Rate
Max Coverage
Avg Coverage
Avg Weighted Exploit
Avg Weighted Impact
Total Occurrences
Total CVEs
32
13.77%
3.80%
100.00%
47.74%
7.23
3.90
1,665,348
2,185
Description.
Generally speaking, all data in transit should be encrypted at the
transport layer
(
OSI layer
4). Previous hurdles such as CPU performance and private key/certificate management are now handled by CPUs having instructions designed to accelerate encryption (eg:
AES support
) and private key and certificate management being simplified by services like
LetsEncrypt.org
with major cloud vendors providing even more tightly integrated certificate management services for their specific platforms.
Beyond securing the transport layer, it is important to determine what data needs encryption at rest as well as what data needs extra encryption in transit (at the
application layer
, OSI layer 7). For example, passwords, credit card numbers, health records, personal information, and business secrets require extra protection, especially if that data falls under privacy laws, e.g., EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), or regulations such as PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). For all such data:
Are any old or weak cryptographic algorithms or protocols used either by default or in older code?
Are default crypto keys in use, are weak crypto keys generated, are keys re-used, or is proper key management and rotation missing?
Are crypto keys checked into source code repositories?
Is encryption not enforced, e.g., are any HTTP headers (browser) security directives or headers missing?
Is the received server certificate and the trust chain properly validated?
Are initialization vectors ignored, reused, or not generated sufficiently secure for the cryptographic mode of operation? Is an insecure mode of operation such as ECB in use? Is encryption used when authenticated encryption is more appropriate?
Are passwords being used as cryptographic keys in the absence of a password based key derivation function?
Is randomness used that was not designed to meet cryptographic requirements? Even if the correct function is chosen, does it need to be seeded by the developer, and if not, has the developer over-written the strong seeding functionality built into it with a seed that lacks sufficient entropy/unpredictability?
Are deprecated hash functions such as MD5 or SHA1 in use, or are non-cryptographic hash functions used when cryptographic hash functions are needed?
Are cryptographic error messages or side channel information exploitable, for example in the form of padding oracle attacks?
Can the cryptographic algorithm be downgraded or bypassed?
See references ASVS: Cryptography (V11), Secure Communication (V12) and Data Protection (V14).
How to prevent.
Do the following, at a minimum, and consult the references:
Classify and label data processed, stored, or transmitted by an application. Identify which data is sensitive according to privacy laws, regulatory requirements, or business needs.
Store your most sensitive keys in a hardware or cloud-based HSM.
Use well-trusted implementations of cryptographic algorithms whenever possible.
Don't store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as possible or use PCI DSS compliant tokenization or even truncation. Data that is not retained cannot be stolen.
Make sure to encrypt all sensitive data at rest.
Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms, protocols, and keys are in place; use proper key management.
Encrypt all data in transit with protocols >= TLS 1.2 only, with forward secrecy (FS) ciphers, drop support for cipher block chaining (CBC) ciphers, support quantum key change algorithms. For HTTPS enforce encryption using HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS). Check everything with a tool.
Disable caching for responses that contain sensitive data. This includes caching in your CDN, web server, and any application caching (eg: Redis).
Apply required security controls as per the data classification.
Do not use unencrypted protocols such as FTP, and STARTTLS. Avoid using SMTP for transmitting confidential data.
Store passwords using strong adaptive and salted hashing functions with a work factor (delay factor), such as Argon2, yescrypt, scrypt or PBKDF2-HMAC-SHA-512. For legacy systems using bcrypt, get more advice at
OWASP Cheat Sheet: Password Storage
Initialization vectors must be chosen appropriate for the mode of operation. This could mean using a CSPRNG (cryptographically secure pseudo random number generator). For modes that require a nonce, the initialization vector (IV) does not need a CSPRNG. In all cases, the IV should never be used twice for a fixed key.
Always use authenticated encryption instead of just encryption.
Keys should be generated cryptographically randomly and stored in memory as byte arrays. If a password is used, then it must be converted to a key via an appropriate password base key derivation function.
Ensure that cryptographic randomness is used where appropriate and that it has not been seeded in a predictable way or with low entropy. Most modern APIs do not require the developer to seed the CSPRNG to be secure.
Avoid deprecated cryptographic functions, block building methods and padding schemes, such as MD5, SHA1, Cipher Block Chaining Mode (CBC), PKCS number 1 v1.5.
Ensure settings and configurations meet security requirements by having them reviewed by security specialists, tools designed for this purpose, or both.
You need to prepare now for post quantum cryptography (PQC), see reference (ENISA) so that high risk systems are safe no later than the end of 2030.
Example attack scenarios.
Scenario #1
: A site doesn't use or enforce TLS for all pages or supports weak encryption. An attacker monitors network traffic (e.g., at an insecure wireless network), downgrades connections from HTTPS to HTTP, intercepts requests, and steals the user's session cookie. The attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user's (authenticated) session, accessing or modifying the user's private data. Instead of the above they could alter all transported data, e.g., the recipient of a money transfer.
Scenario #2
: The password database uses unsalted or simple hashes to store everyone's passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password database. All the unsalted hashes can be exposed with a rainbow table of pre-calculated hashes. Hashes generated by simple or fast hash functions may be cracked by GPUs, even if they were salted.
References.
OWASP Proactive Controls: C2: Use Cryptography to Protect Data
OWASP Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS):
V11,
12,
14
OWASP Cheat Sheet: Transport Layer Protection
OWASP Cheat Sheet: User Privacy Protection
OWASP Cheat Sheet: Password Storage
OWASP Cheat Sheet: Cryptographic Storage
OWASP Cheat Sheet: HSTS
OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for weak cryptography
ENISA: A Coordinated Implementation Roadmap for the Transition to Post-Quantum Cryptography
NIST Releases First 3 Finalized Post-Quantum Encryption Standards
List of Mapped CWEs
CWE-261 Weak Encoding for Password
CWE-296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust
CWE-319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
CWE-320 Key Management Errors (Prohibited)
CWE-321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
CWE-322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication
CWE-323 Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption
CWE-324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date
CWE-325 Missing Required Cryptographic Step
CWE-326 Inadequate Encryption Strength
CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
CWE-328 Reversible One-Way Hash
CWE-329 Not Using a Random IV with CBC Mode
CWE-330 Use of Insufficiently Random Values
CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy
CWE-332 Insufficient Entropy in PRNG
CWE-334 Small Space of Random Values
CWE-335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator(PRNG)
CWE-336 Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
CWE-337 Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
CWE-338 Use of Cryptographically Weak Pseudo-Random Number Generator(PRNG)
CWE-340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
CWE-342 Predictable Exact Value from Previous Values
CWE-347 Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature
CWE-523 Unprotected Transport of Credentials
CWE-757 Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation('Algorithm Downgrade')
CWE-759 Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt
CWE-760 Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt
CWE-780 Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP
CWE-916 Use of Password Hash With Insufficient Computational Effort
CWE-1240 Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation
CWE-1241 Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator
© Copyright 2021-2025 - OWASP Top 10 Team - This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License
.
Made with
Material for MkDocs