Source: A07
Section: Authentication Failures
Section-ID: A07

A07 Authentication Failures - OWASP Top 10:2025
Skip to content
OWASP Top 10:2025
A07 Authentication Failures
en - English
cs - Česky
es - Español
it - Italiano
ja - 日本語 (Japanese)
ko - 한국어 (Korean)
fa - فارسی (Persian/Fārsi)
pt-BR - (Português Brasil)
zh-Hant - 简体中文
Initializing search
OWASP/Top10
OWASP Top 10:2025
OWASP/Top10
Home
Introduction
About OWASP
What are Application Security Risks?
Establishing a Modern Application Security Program
Top 10:2025 List
Top 10:2025 List
A01 Broken Access Control
A02 Security Misconfiguration
A03 Software Supply Chain Failures
A04 Cryptographic Failures
A05 Injection
A06 Insecure Design
A07 Authentication Failures
A07 Authentication Failures
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A08 Software or Data Integrity Failures
A09 Security Logging and Alerting Failures
A10 Mishandling of Exceptional Conditions
Next Steps
Table of contents
Background.
Score table.
Description.
How to prevent.
Example attack scenarios.
References.
List of Mapped CWEs
A07:2025 Authentication Failures
Background.
Authentication Failures maintains its position at #7 with a slight name change to more accurately reflect the 36 CWEs in this category. Despite benefits from standardized frameworks, this category has kept its #7 rank from 2021. Notable CWEs included are
CWE-259 Use of Hard-coded Password
,
CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
,
CWE-287: Improper Authentication
,
CWE-384: Session Fixation
, and
CWE-798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
.
Score table.
CWEs Mapped
Max Incidence Rate
Avg Incidence Rate
Max Coverage
Avg Coverage
Avg Weighted Exploit
Avg Weighted Impact
Total Occurrences
Total CVEs
36
15.80%
2.92%
100.00%
37.14%
7.69
4.44
1,120,673
7,147
Description.
When an attacker is able to trick a system into recognizing an invalid or incorrect user as legitimate, this vulnerability is present. There may be authentication weaknesses if the application:
Permits automated attacks such as credential stuffing, where the attacker has a breached list of valid usernames and passwords. More recently this type of attack has been expanded to include hybrid password attacks credential stuffing (also known as password spray attacks), where the attacker uses variations or increments of spilled credentials to gain access, for instance trying Password1!, Password2!, Password3! and so on.
Permits brute force or other automated, scripted attacks that are not quickly blocked.
Permits default, weak, or well-known passwords, such as "Password1" or "admin" username with an "admin" password.
Allows users to create new accounts with already known-breached credentials.
Allows use of weak or ineffective credential recovery and forgot-password processes, such as "knowledge-based answers," which cannot be made safe.
Uses plain text, encrypted, or weakly hashed passwords data stores (see
A04:2025-Cryptographic Failures
).
Has missing or ineffective multi-factor authentication.
Allows use of weak or ineffective fallbacks if multi-factor authentication is not available.
Exposes session identifier in the URL, a hidden field, or another insecure location that is accessible to the client.
Reuses the same session identifier after successful login.
Does not correctly invalidate user sessions or authentication tokens (mainly single sign-on (SSO) tokens) during logout or a period of inactivity.
Does not correctly assert the scope and intended audience of the provided credentials.
How to prevent.
Where possible, implement and enforce use of multi-factor authentication to prevent automated credential stuffing, brute force, and stolen credential reuse attacks.
Where possible, encourage and enable the use of password managers, to help users make better choices.
Do not ship or deploy with any default credentials, particularly for admin users.
Implement weak password checks, such as testing new or changed passwords against the top 10,000 worst passwords list.
During new account creation and password changes validate against lists of known breached credentials (eg: using
haveibeenpwned.com
).
Align password length, complexity, and rotation policies with
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-63b's guidelines in section 5.1.1
for Memorized Secrets or other modern, evidence-based password policies.
Do not force human beings to rotate passwords unless you suspect breach. If you suspect breach, force password resets immediately.
Ensure registration, credential recovery, and API pathways are hardened against account enumeration attacks by using the same messages for all outcomes (“Invalid username or password.”).
Limit or increasingly delay failed login attempts but be careful not to create a denial of service scenario. Log all failures and alert administrators when credential stuffing, brute force, or other attacks are detected or suspected.
Use a server-side, secure, built-in session manager that generates a new random session ID with high entropy after login. Session identifiers should not be in the URL, be securely stored in a secure cookie, and invalidated after logout, idle, and absolute timeouts.
Ideally, use a premade, well-trusted system to handle authentication, identity, and session management. Transfer this risk whenever possible by buying and utilizing a hardened and well tested system.
Verify the intended use of provided credentials, e.g. for JWTs validate
aud
,
iss
claims and scopes
Example attack scenarios.
Scenario #1:
Credential stuffing, the use of lists of known username and password combinations, is now a very common attack. More recently attackers have been found to ‘increment’ or otherwise adjust passwords, based on common human behavior. For instance, changing ‘Winter2025’ to ‘Winter2026’, or ‘ILoveMyDog6’ to ‘ILoveMyDog7’ or ‘ILoveMyDog5’. This adjusting of password attempts is called a hybrid credential stuffing attack or a password spray attack, and they can be even more effective than the traditional version. If an application does not implement defences against automated threats (brute force, scripts, or bots) or credential stuffing, the application can be used as a password oracle to determine if the credentials are valid and gain unauthorized access.
Scenario #2:
Most successful authentication attacks occur due to the continued use of passwords as the sole authentication factor. Once considered best practices, password rotation and complexity requirements encourage users to both reuse passwords and use weak passwords. Organizations are recommended to stop these practices per NIST 800-63 and to enforce use of multi-factor authentication on all important systems.
Scenario #3:
Application session timeouts aren't implemented correctly. A user uses a public computer to access an application and instead of selecting "logout," the user simply closes the browser tab and walks away. Another Example for this is, if a Single Sign on (SSO) session can not be closed by a Single Logout (SLO). That is, a single login logs you into, for example, your mail reader, your document system, and your chat system. But logging out happens only to the current system. If an attacker uses the same browser after the victim thinks they have successfully logged out, but with the user still authenticated to some of the applications, then can access the victim's account. The same issue can happen in offices and enterprises when a sensitive application has not been properly exited and a colleague has (temporary) access to the unlocked computer.
References.
OWASP Authentication Cheat Sheet
OWASP Secure Coding Practices
List of Mapped CWEs
CWE-258 Empty Password in Configuration File
CWE-259 Use of Hard-coded Password
CWE-287 Improper Authentication
CWE-288 Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
CWE-289 Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name
CWE-290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
CWE-291 Reliance on IP Address for Authentication
CWE-293 Using Referer Field for Authentication
CWE-294 Authentication Bypass by Capture-replay
CWE-295 Improper Certificate Validation
CWE-297 Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
CWE-298 Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
CWE-299 Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
CWE-300 Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint
CWE-302 Authentication Bypass by Assumed-Immutable Data
CWE-303 Incorrect Implementation of Authentication Algorithm
CWE-304 Missing Critical Step in Authentication
CWE-305 Authentication Bypass by Primary Weakness
CWE-306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function
CWE-307 Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts
CWE-308 Use of Single-factor Authentication
CWE-309 Use of Password System for Primary Authentication
CWE-346 Origin Validation Error
CWE-350 Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action
CWE-384 Session Fixation
CWE-521 Weak Password Requirements
CWE-613 Insufficient Session Expiration
CWE-620 Unverified Password Change
CWE-640 Weak Password Recovery Mechanism for Forgotten Password
CWE-798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
CWE-940 Improper Verification of Source of a Communication Channel
CWE-941 Incorrectly Specified Destination in a Communication Channel
CWE-1390 Weak Authentication
CWE-1391 Use of Weak Credentials
CWE-1392 Use of Default Credentials
CWE-1393 Use of Default Password
© Copyright 2021-2025 - OWASP Top 10 Team - This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License
.
Made with
Material for MkDocs