Source: K02
Section: Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
Section-ID: K02

K02: Supply Chain Vulnerabilities | OWASP Foundation
Store
Donate
Join
This website uses cookies to analyze our traffic and only share that information with our analytics partners.
Accept
x
Store
Donate
Join
K02: Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
Overview
Containers take on many forms at different phases of the development lifecycle
supply chain; each of them presenting unique security challenges. A single
container alone can rely on hundreds of third-party components and dependencies
making trust of origin at each phase extremely difficult. These challenges
include but are not limited to image integrity, image composition, and known
software vulnerabilities.
Description
Image Integrity:
Software provenance has recently attracted significant
attention in the media due to events such as the
Solarwinds
breach
and a variety of
tainted third-party
packages
.
These supply chain risks can surface in various states of the container build
cycle as well as at runtime inside of Kubernetes. When systems of record do not
exist regarding the contents of a container image it is possible that an
unexpected container may run in a cluster.
Image Composition:
A container image consists of layers, each of which can
present security implications. A properly constructed container image not only
reduces attack surface, but can also increase deployment efficiency. Images with
extraneous software can be leveraged to elevate privileges or exploit known
vulnerabilities.
Known Software Vulnerabilities
: Due to their extensive use of third-party
packages, many container images are inherently dangerous to pull into a trusted
environment and run. For example, if a given layer in an image contains a
version of OpenSSL that is susceptible to a known exploit it may be propagated
to several workloads and unknowingly put an entire cluster at risk.
How to Prevent
Image Integrity:
Container images can be thought of as a series of software
artifacts and metadata passed from a producer to a consumer. The handoff can be
as simple as a developer’s IDE directly to a Kubernetes cluster or as complex as
a multi-step dedicated CI/CD workflow. The integrity of the software should be
validated through each phase using
in-toto
attestations
. This also increases the
SLSA
level of the build pipeline, with a higher SLSA level
indicating a more resilient build pipeline.
Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
: An SBOM provides a list of software
packages, licenses, and libraries a given software artifact contains and should
be used as a starting point for other security checks. Two of the most popular
open standards for SBOM generation include
CycloneDX
and
SPDX
.
Image Signing
: Each of the steps throughout a DevOps workflow can introduce
attacks or unexpected consequences. Producers and consumers use cryptographic
key-pairs to sign and verify the artifact at each step of the supply chain to
detect tampering with the artifacts themselves. The open-source
Cosign
project is an open source project
aimed at verifying container images.
Image Composition:
Container images should be created using minimal OS
packages and dependencies to reduce the attack surface if the workload should be
compromised. Consider utilizing alternative base images such as
Distroless
or
Scratch
to not only improve security posture
but also drastically reduce the noise generated by vulnerability scanners. Using
distroless images also reduces the image size which ultimately helps in faster
CI/CD build.  It is also important to ensure your base images are up-to-date
with the latest security patches. Tools such as
Docker
Slim
are available to optimize your
image footprint for performance and security reasons.
Known Software Vulnerabilities:
Image vulnerability scanning aims to
enumerate known security issues in container images and should be used as a
first line of defense.
**
You can identify all upstream software with
vulnerabilities simply by looking for images built with a specific layer. Images
should be patched quickly by simply replacing the layer containing the
vulnerability and rebuilding the container to use up-to-date, fixed packages.
Open source tools such as
Clair
and
trivy
will statically analyze container
images for known vulnerabilities such as CVEs and should be used as early in the
development cycle as reasonably possible.
Enforcing Policy:
Prevent unapproved images from being used with the
Kubernetes
admission
controls
and policy engines such as
Open Policy Agent
and
Kyverno
to reject workloads images which:
haven’t been scanned for vulnerabilities
use a base image that’s not explicitly allowed
don’t include an approved SBOM
originated from untrusted registries
Example Attack Scenarios
Example #1: Compromised CI/CD Pipeline
Most teams use some form of automation to build and push container images to a
central registry. The image is then pulled from Kubernetes as defined in the
object manifest. If that build tool were to be compromised and a malicious
package was injected as part of the build Kubernetes would pull the image into
the cluster and run it. Malware may be executed, cryptocurrency miners may be
installed, or a backdoor planted.
References
Admission Controllers:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/
Co-Sign:
https://github.com/sigstore/cosign
CycloneDX:
https://owasp.org/www-project-cyclonedx/
Docker Slim:
https://github.com/docker-slim/docker-slim
Open Policy Agent:
https://www.openpolicyagent.org/
in-toto:
https://in-toto.io
SLSA:
https://slsa.dev
Watch
Star
The OWASP
®
Foundation
works to improve the security of software through its community-led open source software projects, 
     hundreds of chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local and global conferences.
Relevant Links
OWASP Kubernetes Top 10 Project
Introduction
Other Risks to Consider
Top 10 Kubernetes Risks
K01: Insecure Workload Configuration
K02: Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
K03: Overly Permissive RBAC
K04: Policy Enforcement
K05: Inadequate Logging
K06: Broken Authentication
K07: Network Segmentation
K08: Secrets Management
K09: Misconfigured Cluster Components
K10: Vulnerable Components
Leaders
Jimmy Mesta
Upcoming OWASP Global Events
Corporate Supporters
Become a corporate supporter
HOME
PROJECTS
CHAPTERS
EVENTS
ABOUT
PRIVACY
SITEMAP
CONTACT
OWASP, the OWASP logo, and Global AppSec are registered trademarks and AppSec Days, AppSec California, AppSec Cali, SnowFROC, OWASP Boston Application Security Conference, and LASCON are trademarks of the OWASP Foundation, Inc. Unless otherwise specified, all content on the site is Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike v4.0 and provided without warranty of service or accuracy. For more information, please refer to our
General Disclaimer
. OWASP does not endorse or recommend commercial products or services, allowing our community to remain vendor neutral with the collective wisdom of the best minds in software security worldwide. Copyright 2026, OWASP Foundation, Inc.