Source: K03
Section: Secrets Management Failures
Section-ID: K03

K03: Secrets Management Failures | OWASP Foundation
Store
Donate
Join
This website uses cookies to analyze our traffic and only share that information with our analytics partners.
Accept
x
Store
Donate
Join
K03: Secrets Management Failures
Overview
Applications running in Kubernetes clusters need access to secrets (e.g. API keys, database credentials) for their operation, and it’s important to ensure that these secrets are managed securely, as unauthorized access to secrets can have serious consequences for organization’s security.
Description
Containerized applications need to have secure access to secret data and there are a number of ways in which this can be inappropriately handled.
Secrets in container images.
If a secret is embedded into a container image any attacker who can gain access to the image, will gain access to the credential. It also presents significant difficulties in effectively rotating credentials
Secrets in ConfigMaps.
Whilst ConfigMap objects are handled similarly to Kubernetes Secrets in a number of ways they should not be used to store sensitive data as access control for ConfigMaps is often less strict, and it is more likely that ConfigMaps will be included in debugging information and backups which could lead to unauthorized disclosure.
Secrets in environment variables.
When Kubernetes secrets are used, they can either be presented to the container as environment variables or as a mounted file. In general users should avoid using environment variables as they can be included in debugging information leading to their unauthorized disclosure.
Secrets in code repositories.
Secret information should never be introduced into source code repositories as they may be cloned or replicated to insecure locations resulting in their disclosure.
WATCH/LIST access to secrets.
An important point to know is that any user in the cluster who has LIST or WATCH access to secret objects can effectively retrieve the contents of those secrets.
Secrets in application logs
. Applications often log configuration or environment state during startup or errors. If secrets are handled improperly in code or passed as env variables, they may be written to stdout/stderr. This exposes them to any user with
get
permission on the
pods/log
sub-resource and also to anyone with access to downstream centralized logging platforms (Splunk, Elasticsearch) where they are stored in plaintext, often with long retention periods and weak access controls.
How to prevent
Secrets should be carefully managed in Kubernetes. There are some controls within Kubernetes which should be used to ensure that they are restricted as much as possible.
Use either Kubernetes secret objects or an external dedicated secret store. It’s important to use purpose built facilities for secret management as it makes the intent clear and users will realise those resources should be secured.
If using Kubernetes secrets, consider applying the
--encryption-provider-config
parameter to the API server to encrypt data held in etcd. It’s worth noting that this may not provide significant benefit if the API server and etcd process run on the same host(s).
Strict RBAC controls should be in place on all access to Secret resources in Kubernetes.
Wherever possible eliminate static credentials by adopting Workload Identity Federation or making use of solutions like the External Secrets Operator to inject secrets from a managed vault. This approach allows Pods to authenticate directly to cloud services using their native Kubernetes Service Account via OIDC tokens. By removing the need to store long lived passwords in Kubernetes Secret objects, effectively mitigate the risk of credential theft from etcd or log leaks, while benefiting from short lived, auto rotating tokens that follow the principle of Zero Trust.
Long-lived credentials are a primary liability. Use tools like External Secrets Operator or cert-manager to automate rotation. For ServiceAccounts, use the TokenRequest API for short-lived, auto-rotating tokens.
References
Encrypt Confidential Data at Rest
Kubernetes Secrets Best Practices
External Secrets Operator
Watch
Star
The OWASP
®
Foundation
works to improve the security of software through its community-led open source software projects, 
     hundreds of chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local and global conferences.
Relevant Links
OWASP Kubernetes Top 10 Project
Top 10 Kubernetes Risks
K01: Insecure Workload Configuration
K02: Overly Permissive Authorization Configurations
K03: Secrets Management Failures
K04: Lack Of Cluster Level Policy Enforcement
K05: Missing Network Segmentation Controls
K06: Overly Exposed Kubernetes Components
K07: Misconfigured And Vulnerable Cluster Components
K08: Cluster To Cloud Lateral Movement
K09: Broken Authentication Mechanisms
K10: Inadequate Logging And Monitoring
Upcoming OWASP Global Events
Corporate Supporters
Become a corporate supporter
HOME
PROJECTS
CHAPTERS
EVENTS
ABOUT
PRIVACY
SITEMAP
CONTACT
OWASP, the OWASP logo, and Global AppSec are registered trademarks and AppSec Days, AppSec California, AppSec Cali, SnowFROC, OWASP Boston Application Security Conference, and LASCON are trademarks of the OWASP Foundation, Inc. Unless otherwise specified, all content on the site is Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike v4.0 and provided without warranty of service or accuracy. For more information, please refer to our
General Disclaimer
. OWASP does not endorse or recommend commercial products or services, allowing our community to remain vendor neutral with the collective wisdom of the best minds in software security worldwide. Copyright 2026, OWASP Foundation, Inc.